---
author: Jeff Windsor
when: 2019-03-27
title: Managing multiple identities in a shared .gitconfig
tags:
- git
- git-config
- dotfiles
partialCount: 4
---

## TL;DR

As of Git 2.13, you can utilize [conditional includes](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-config#_conditional_includes) in your `.gitconfig` file to connect different identities to different repo directories.  Which lead me to use this concept to manage my multiple git identities.  Here are two use cases for your consideration:

* Using a work identity just for work repos:

    For this solution we are going to take advantage of the fact that `git` will use the last value given for a key in any config.  You will *override* your personal identity with a work identity using a conditional include scoped to your work repo directory tree.

* Strict management of multiple identities over groups of repos

    Remove your default identity from the gitconfig and implement strict identity to directory tree with an conditional include for each identity

## Implementation Details

### Using a work identity just for work repos

* Create a directory for all your work repos

    ```
    ~/code/company-name
    ```
* Create an includable git config file for your work identity

    `~/.gitconfig-companyname`
    ```
    [user]
        name = Work Name
        email = workname@company.com
    ```

* Append your `~/.gitconfig` file after your `[user]` section with a conditional include for the created work config file and work directory pair.

    ```
    ...
    [user]
        name = Personal Name
        email = personal-name@email.com

    [includeIf "gitdir:~/code/company-name/"]
        path = ~/.gitconfig-companyname
    ```

#### Results:

* Since git uses the last entry of any key in your config, all checkins in the work directories will use your work identity, and git directories everywhere else will use your personal identity. Git directories within the `~/code/company-name` directory will have `git config --list` will look like below.  Meaning all checkins will be under your work identity.

    ```
    ...
    user.name=Personal Name
    user.email=personal-name@email.com
    includeif.gitdir:~/code/company-name/.path=~/.gitconfig-companyname
    user.name=Work Name
    user.email=workname@company.com
    ...
    ```

* Git directories everywhere else will have `git config --list` will look like the below, meaning all other directories will use your default `.gitconfig [user]` section identity

    ```
    ...
    user.name=Personal Name
    user.email=personal-name@email.com
    includeif.gitdir:~/code/company-name/.path=~/.gitconfig-companyname
    ...
    ```


### Strict management of multiple identities over groups of repos

For the more explicit minded in the audience, you can extend the above idea. Instead using a default identity in your `.gitconfig`, use specific include if and directory for each identity you have.

* Create a code directory for each identity

    ```
    ~/code/identity_one_repos
    ~/code/identity_two-repos
    ~/code/identity_three-repos
    ```

* Create an includable git config file for each identity

    * `~/.gitconfig-identity-one` with contents

        ```
        [user]
            name = Identity One
            email = identity_one@email.com
        ```

    * `~/.gitconfig-identity-two`

        ```
        [user]
            name = Identity Two
            email = identity_two@email.com
        ```

    * `~/.gitconfig-identity-three`

        ```
        [user]
            name = Identity Three
            email = identity_three@email.com
        ```

* Modify `~/.gitconfig` to have no `[user]` section and an `includeif` for each identity

    ```
    ...
    [includeIf "gitdir:~/code/identity_one_repos/"]
        path = ~/.gitconfig-identity-one
    [includeIf "gitdir:~/code/identity_two_repos/"]
        path = ~/.gitconfig-identity-two
    [includeIf "gitdir:~/code/identity_three_repos/"]
        path = ~/.gitconfig-identity-three
    ```

#### Results

Your `git config --list` in each directory will be given its included `[user]` section.  Any git directory outside of the specified will not have any identity.